RETURN 
OF THE 
JEDI

by
Lawrence Kasdan
&
George Lucas

From The Novel
by
George Lucas

Third Draft

Property of Lucasfilm Ltd.


Completion Date December 1, 1981

1    SPACE                                                           

The boundless heavens serve as a back-drop for the MAIN TITLE, followed 
by a ROLL-UP, which crawls into infinity.

Episode VI
RETURN OF THE JEDI

Luke Skywalker has returned to his home planet of Tatooine in an 
attempt to rescue his friend Han Solo from the clutches of theï¿½vile 
gangster Jabba the Hutt. Little does Luke know that the GALACTIC EMPIRE 
has secretly begun construction on a new armored space station even 
more powerful than the first dreaded Death Star. When completed, this 
ultimate weapon will spell certain doom for the small band of Rebels 
struggling to restore freedom to the galaxy...

PAN DOWN to reveal a monstrous half-completed Death Star, its massive 
superstructure curling away from the completed section like the arms of 
a giant octopus. Beyond, in benevolent contrast, floats the small, 
green moon of ENDOR.

An Imperial Star Destroyer moves overhead toward the massive armored 
space station, followed by two zipping TIE fighters. A small Imperial 
shuttle rockets from the main bay of the ship and hustles toward the 
Death Star.

2    INT IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT 
The shuttle captain makes contact with the Death Star.

SHUTTLE CAPTAIN
Command station, this is ST 321. Code Clearance Blue. We're starting 
our approach. Deactivate the security shield.

DEATH STAR CONTROLLER	(filtered VO)
The security deflector shield will be deactivated when we have 
confirmation of your code transmission. Stand by... You are clear to 
proceed.

SHUTTLE CAPTAIN
We're starting our approach.

3    INT DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Operators move about among the control panels. A SHIELD OPERATOR hits 
switches beside a large screen, on which is a display of the Death 
Star, the moon Endor, and a bright web delineating the invisible 
deflector shield.

A control officer rushes over to the shield operator.

OFFICER
Inform the commander that Lord Vader's shuttle has arrived.

OPERATOR
Yes, sir.

The control officer moves to a view port and watches as the Imperial 
shuttle lands in the massive docking bay. A squad of Imperial 
stormtroopers moves into formation before the craft.

4    INT DEATH STAR - MAIN DOCKING BAY

The DEATH STAR COMMANDER, MOFF JERJERROD, a tall, confident technocrat, 
strides through the assembled troops to the base of the shuttle ramp. 
The troops snap to attention; many are uneasy about the new arrival. 
But the Death Star commander stands arrogantly tall.

The exit hatch of the shuttle opens with a WHOOSH, revealing only 
darkness. Then, heavy FOOTSTEPS AND MECHANICAL BREATHING. From this 
black void appears DARTH VADER, LORD OF THE SITH. Vader looks over the 
assemblage as he walks down the ramp.

JERJERROD
Lord Vader, this is an unexpected pleasure. We're honored by your 
presence.

VADER
You may dispense with the pleasantries, Commander. I'm here to put you 
back on
schedule.

The commander turns ashen and begins to shake.

JERJERROD
I assure you, Lord Vader, my men are working as fast as they can.

VADER
Perhaps I can find new ways to motivate them.

JERJERROD
I tell you, this station will be operational as planned.

VADER
The Emperor does not share your optimistic appraisal of the situation.

JERJERROD
But he asks the impossible. I need more men.

VADER
Then perhaps you can tell him when he arrives.

JERJERROD	 (aghast)
The Emperor's coming here?

VADER
That is correct, Commander. And he is most displeased with your 
apparent lack of progress.

JERJERROD
We shall double our efforts.

VADER
I hope so, Commander, for your sake. The Emperor is not as forgiving as 
I am.

5    EXT ROAD TO JABBA'S PALACE - TATOOINE

A lonely, windswept road meanders through the desolate Tatooine 
terrain. We HEAR a familiar BEEPING and a distinctive reply before 
catching sight of ARTOO-DETOO and SEE-THREEPIO, making their way along 
the road toward the ominous palace of Jabba the Hutt.

THREEPIO
Of course I'm worried. And you should be, too. Lando Calrissian and 
poor Chewbacca never returned from this awful place.

Artoo whistles timidly.

THREEPIO
Don't be so sure. If I told you half the things I've heard about this 
Jabba the Hutt, you'd probably short-circuit.

The two droids fearfully approach the massive gate to the palace.

THREEPIO
Artoo, are you sure this is the right place? I better knock, I suppose.

6    EXT JABBA'S PALACE - GATE 

Threepio looks around for some kind of signaling device, then timidly 
knocks on the iron door.

THREEPIO	 (instantly) 
There doesn't seem to be anyone there. Let's go back and tell Master 
Luke.

A small hatch in the middle of the door opens and a spidery mechanical 
arm, with a large electronic eyeball on the end, pops out and inspects 
the two droids.

STRANGE VOICE
Tee chuta hhat yudd!

THREEPIO
Goodness gracious me!

 Threepio points to Artoo, then to himself.

 THREEPIO
 Artoo Detoowha bo Seethreepiowha ey toota odd mischka Jabba du Hutt.

The eye looks from one robot to the other, there is a laugh then the 
eye zips back into the door. The hatch slams shut. Artoo beeps his 
concern.

THREEPIO
I don't think they're going to let us in, Artoo. We'd better go.

Artoo beeps his reluctance as Threepio turns to leave. Suddenly the 
massive door starts to rise with a horrific metallic SCREECH. The 
robots turn back and face an endless black cavity. The droids look at 
one another, afraid to enter.

Artoo starts forward into the gloom. Threepio rushes after his stubby 
companion. The door lowers noisily behind them.

THREEPIO 
Artoo, wait. Oh, dear! Artoo. Artoo, I really don't think we should 
rush into all this.

Artoo continues down the corridor, with Threepio following.

THREEPIO
Oh, Artoo!  Artoo, wait for me!

7    INT JABBA'S PALACE - HALLWAY

The door slams shut with a loud crash that echoes throughout the dark 
passageway. The frightened robots are met by two giant, green GAMORREAN 
GUARDS, who fall in behind them. Threepio glances quickly back at the 
two lumbering brutes, then back to Artoo. One guard grunts an order. 
Artoo beeps nervously.

THREEPIO
Just you deliver Master Luke's message and get us out of here. Oh my! 
Oh! Oh, no.

Walking toward them out of the darkness is BIB FORTUNA, a humanlike 
alien with long tentacles protruding from his skull.

BIB
Die Wanna Wanga!

THREEPIO
Oh, my! Die Wanna Wauaga. We -- we bring a message to your master, 
Jabba the Hutt.

Artoo lets out a series of quick beeps.

THREEPIO	 (cont)
...and a gift.
(thinks a moment, then to Artoo)
Gift, what gift?

Bib shakes his head negatively.

BIB
Nee Jabba no badda. Me chaade su goodie.

Bib holds out his hand toward Artoo and the tiny droid backs up a bit, 
letting out a protesting array of squeaks. Threepio turns to the 
strange-looking alien.

THREEPIO
He says that our instructions are to give it only to Jabba himself.

Bib thinks about this for a moment.

THREEPIO
I'm terribly sorry. I'm afraid he's ever so stubborn about these sort 
of things.

Bib gestures for the droids to follow.

BIB
Nudd Chaa.

The droids follow the tall, tentacled alien into the darkness, trailed 
by the two guards.

THREEPIO
Artoo, I have a bad feeling about this.